the US military says a drone which hit a
chemical tanker in the Indian Ocean last
night was launched from Iran Iran has
been accused of backing houthi rebels in
Yemen who've been attacking shipping in
the Red Sea in recent weeks the US says
it's also shot down four drones in the
same Waters the possibility of hostility
spreading further across the region will
concern many International leaders as
Rob Watson
reports could the Drone strike on this
tanker being escorted to a port in India
signal a dangerous new threat to
shipping in the region and an escalation
of Iran's involvement just a few days
ago a senior Iranian Commander
threatened to close the Mediterranean
and Straits of jalter so the prospect
has to be taken seriously but its
foreign minister claims escalation is
not in Iran's
interest for us Regional security is
very important we are not seeking to
expand the scope of war the solution to
the problem is not to establish a
so-called Coalition in the Red Sea but
to stop the Bloodshed of women children
and civilians in the Gaza Strip and the
West
Bank there have already been over 100
attacks on shipping in the Red Sea by
the Iranian banked houthis based in
Yemen the US accuses tan of supporting
and funding such attacks and is
establishing a coalition to patrol the
Red Sea to protect what it calls a
threat to global trade not just Israel's
the houthis aren't attacking just one
country they're really attacking the
International Community uh they they are
attacking the economic well-being and
prosperity of Nations around the
world the sophistication of houthi
attacks against shipping including this
extraordinary Airborne assault on a
vessel in the Red Sea filmed by the
attackers themselves is already having
an impact hundreds of ships have been
diverted from the area at extra cost to
owners and customers alike but despite
such attacks and Rising tensions both
the US and Iran do seem anxious to avoid
a wide of War but the shipping companies
and their customers will be watching
nervously Rob Watson BBC News